<h1 align="center">denver-traffic</h1>
<div align="center">
  <strong>Extracting meaningful series from screenshots of google maps with traffic layer enabled</strong>
</div>

<br />

<div align="center">
  <h3>
    <a href="https://www.stuartandcaitlyn.com/">
      Stuart's Website
    </a>
  </h3>
</div>

## Table of Contents
- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Use-Cases](#use-cases)
- [Collaborating](#collaborating)


## Purpose
- Use screenshots of google maps centered on denver with the traffic layer enabled in interesting ways.


## Use-Cases

### Visualization
- What does the return of traffic look like as the shelter-in-place order expires from denver metro counties?
    - Side-by-side (one week lag) with 1 week before and week-of return traffic movement synced in time
    - Line plot with 2 series: traffic pixel labels for heavy, med, light traffic combined for the two week
- Visualize the daily pulse of traffic
    - Gif / mp4 of images by time with datetime label
    
### Analysis  
- Combine accident frequency with weather / sun angle / road conditions data for downstream modeling
    - Limit image extent to denver, combine with denver crashes dataset (https://denvergov.org/opendata/dataset/city-and-county-of-denver-traffic-accidents), and build appropriate regression?
- Create a timeseries of traffic conditions for traffic flow improvement
    - Done. Groups by pixel labels (generated by sampling a static image for rgba values)
- Enable generating a history of (coarse) traffic conditions for areas within the metro
    - Where can I host a dataset like this reliably and for free? GIT LFS?
- Anomaly detection for unusual traffic activity (Suggested by Timothy Van Heest)


## Collaborating

I love learning and especially from others who share in the joy in data. I haven't made the dataset public yet (mostly to avoid any commercialization of it which would be a violation of gmaps TOS from what I can tell). Email me if you want to do something cool with this data though and I'm happy to discuss: stuart.a.sims@gmail.com

